4WD

4WD, also called 4×4, is generally the better system for off-roading.*
4WD locks the front and rear axles together, providing a 50:50 torque 
distribution. With power delegated equally to each axle, grip and balance
are easy to come by. But because the front and rear axles operate at the 
same speeds, the wheels need to be able to slip some to compensate while 
turning. On loose surfaces like gravel, sand, or snow, this system is 
excellent for keeping you from getting stuck, but driving on pavement 
with 4WD engaged can damage the powertrain of some vehicles. There are
mechanical workarounds for this, especially in newer cars, but always be
aware of how your 4×4’s system works.

Most 4x4s allow you to engage the 4WD modes manually, giving you more 
control over how the car moves. When the going gets tough in a part-time
4WD car, you can switch from the default two-wheel drive to 4WD by pulling
a lever or pushing a button. If you get stuck in a snowbank, switching to
a lower gear 4WD mode should save a call to AAA. 4WD, then, is ideal if
you anticipate doing any rock crawling or driving on any particularly 
dodgy unplowed roads. Many who live in a climate where snow and ice make 
annual appearances opt for a vehicle with 4WD over AWD. A 4×4 vehicle is
also the tool of choice for serious off-roading, dune wheeling, and towing
heavy trailers.

Compare to AWD, 4wd may not include steering wheels. For example, on long 
haul trucks, each truck (tractor) has 3 axles (6 wheels in total). 4wd on 
trucks only includes 4 drive wheels, not 2 steering wheels.
